MTM-47846: doc: first cut of pulsar and databroker install guide (#603)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/edge/databroker-bundle/databroker-edge.md

---
weight: 10
title: Installing Apache Pulsar and Cumulocity Data broker on Edge
layout: redirect
---

> Data broker is an optional component of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge. The data broker is a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} feature that allows a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Tenant to send data in motion (live measurements, events and alarms), using the standard {{< product-c8y-iot >}} REST API requests, to another Tenant as that data arrives in the first Tenant. The other, second Tenant can be within the same {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instance or another remote one. It is often used to 'ship' data from remote Edge {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instances in the field to a central {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instance, where all data from all remote 'field' locations can be seen and handled together. Another use case may be where devices are leased; the devices are managed by the leasing company in its Tenant, and the devices' measurements, etc are sent, via a data broker connection, onto the leasing tenant for application data processing.

Reviewer: Good intro, should probably also include a reference to the microservice-based data broker documentation in the user guide.

> Data broker is an optional component of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge. The data broker is a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} feature that allows a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Tenant to send data in motion (live measurements, events and alarms), using the standard {{< product-c8y-iot >}} REST API requests, to another Tenant as that data arrives in the first Tenant. The other, second Tenant can be within the same {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instance or another remote one. It is often used to 'ship' data from remote Edge {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instances in the field to a central {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instance, where all data from all remote 'field' locations can be seen and handled together. Another use case may be where devices are leased; the devices are managed by the leasing company in its Tenant, and the devices' measurements, etc are sent, via a data broker connection, onto the leasing tenant for application data processing.

Reviewer: The doc team will know for sure but I don't know if "Tenant" should always be capitalised like that?

Author: I know what you mean - it doesn't seem to be quite right.

> Data broker is an optional component of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge. The data broker is a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} feature that allows a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Tenant to send data in motion (live measurements, events and alarms), using the standard {{< product-c8y-iot >}} REST API requests, to another Tenant as that data arrives in the first Tenant. The other, second Tenant can be within the same {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instance or another remote one. It is often used to 'ship' data from remote Edge {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instances in the field to a central {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instance, where all data from all remote 'field' locations can be seen and handled together. Another use case may be where devices are leased; the devices are managed by the leasing company in its Tenant, and the devices' measurements, etc are sent, via a data broker connection, onto the leasing tenant for application data processing.

Reviewer 2: A little bit uncomfortable with saying 'The other, second Tenant can be within the same Cumulocity IoT instance or ...' as on the Edge there should only be one (non-management) tenant. I know I write that, but it was for the general case.

Maybe we can simply remove that sentence - seems to read just as well without it

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I resolved this comment too soon (you haven't pushed) - I'll leave this until I've seen the change (hence unresolved)

The bundle for installing Apache Pulsar and the Cumulocity Data broker comes as a .tgz file which contains the Pulsar and Data broker files, an install script and a digital signature. This bundle is unpacked, the signature verified and the install script executed by another script that is part of the standard Edge install. The bundle can be downloaded from the Empower server. [NEED DETAILS]

You need to ensure that microservices are enabled for Edge as both Pulsar and Data broker run as Kubernetes pods. Running microservices on a basic Edge install requires the number of CPU cores to be increased from 2 to 4 and the RAM to be increased from 6GB to 8GB. Running Pulsar and Data broker requires an extra 4GB of RAM on top of this.

> Using SCP, copy the bundle to the /tmp directory on the Edge server - you will need to enter the password for the Edge Linux admin account (management tenant) when prompted.

Reviewer: Can we give an example command line, probably with placeholders like the one below?

> Using SCP, copy the bundle to the /tmp directory on the Edge server - you will need to enter the password for the Edge Linux admin account (management tenant) when prompted.

Reviewer 2: The linux admin account password is not same as the management tenant password (it may have the same value for us and many others to reduce password overload).

I might be wrong (I might be confused by the password overload), but if not, we should remove '(management tenant)' from the sentence.

Reviewer 2: .. maybe referring to it as the 'Edge Linux admin account' doesn't help separate these user concepts; 'admin' is the usual username of the Cumulocity 'empowered user' for a tenant, so using that term when referring to the empowered linux user muddies things.
 Not sure what alternative to suggest, maybe 'Edge Linux login account' or 'Edge Linux host administrative login account'. Maybe they're a bit convoluted

Author: I often have to think about which account I am using. I've made some changes that will hopefully make this clearer.

Reviewer 2: Great (I get confused too - and no matter what we do, it's a easy place to get confused as there are too many users in play in Edge).

I'll take a re-read ...

Reviewer 2: 'Edge Linux administrative/login account' is much clear, but maybe one (I suggest) the simpler one below is nicer, i.e.; 'Edge Linux admin account'. 

It just seems neater, but is clearly the Linux login

Then run:

```bash

> ssh <ADMIN_USERNAME>@<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER> -t "/bin/bash -c 'cd /tmp && sudo /opt/c8y/utilities/install_signed_package.sh/tmp/<BUNDLE_NAME>"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ssh <ADMIN_USERNAME>@<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER> -t "/bin/bash -c 'cd /tmp && sudo /opt/c8y/utilities/install_signed_package.sh /tmp/<BUNDLE_NAME>"
```

Author: Good spot!

```

> substituting the relevant values of `<ADMIN_USERNAME>`, `<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER>` and `<BUNDLE_NAME>`. You will need to enter the Edge Linux admin account password again followed by the Cumulocity admin account password.

Reviewer 2: If we do change the term 'Linux admin credentials' then we have two more case here; one here and one below on the line starting 'To confirm Pulsar ...'

Author: I've re-ordered some of these paragraphs to address an earlier issue and also made some changes to the text to address this.

Reviewer 2: Thanks. I prefer the term you updated to here to the one above (as in comment above)

To confirm Pulsar and Data broker are now running, log into the Edge VM using ssh with the Linux admin credentials and run:

```bash

> sudo kubectl get pods -A

Reviewer: Should show some expected sample output here.

```

> The key pods that should be running are the pulsar bookie, pulsar broker, pulsar zookeeper and databroker agent server. It may take a few minutes for the kubernetes pods to settle into a Running state after the install has been done.

Reviewer: As a "for more information" point we should reference the Messaging operations guide which has a reasonably comprehensive troubleshooting section.  Unfortunately you can't link to it directly but you can name the guide and the section within it.

Author: I can't find this - do you have a link.

Reviewer: See suggested change below...

> The key pods that should be running are the pulsar bookie, pulsar broker, pulsar zookeeper and databroker agent server. It may take a few minutes for the kubernetes pods to settle into a Running state after the install has been done.

Reviewer: Are there any common/likely failure cases of our script that we should cover here?

Author: I can't think of much. Because of the file sizes involved, it's not difficult to run out of disk space, although that's more of a problem for the host VM rather than the child VM.

Reviewer: See comment above about the system requirements.

---
weight: 10

> title: Installing the Messaging Service and the Microservice-based Data broker on Edge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Installing the Messaging Service and the microservice-based data broker on Edge
```

layout: redirect
---

> The Microservice-based Data broker is an optional component of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge. The data broker is a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} feature that allows a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} tenant to send data in motion (live measurements, events and alarms), using the standard {{< product-c8y-iot >}} REST API requests, to another tenant as that data arrives in the first tenant. It is often used to 'ship' data from remote Edge {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instances in the field to a central {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instance, where all data from all remote 'field' locations can be seen and handled together. Another use case may be where devices are leased; the devices are managed by the leasing company in its tenant, and the devices' measurements, etc are sent, via a data broker connection, onto the leasing tenant for application data processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The microservice-based data broker is an optional component of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge. The data broker is a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} feature that allows a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} tenant to send data in motion (live measurements, events and alarms), using the standard {{< product-c8y-iot >}} REST API requests, to another tenant as that data arrives in the first tenant. It is often used to 'ship' data from remote Edge {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instances in the field to a central {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instance, where all data from all remote 'field' locations can be seen and handled together. Another use case may be where devices are leased; the devices are managed by the leasing company in its tenant, and the devices' measurements, etc. are sent, via a data broker connection, onto the leasing tenant for application data processing.
```

> The bundle for installing the Messaging Service and the Microservice-based Data broker comes as a .tgz file which contains the Messaging Service and Data broker files, an install script and a digital signature. This bundle is unpacked, the signature verified and the install script executed by another script that is part of the standard Edge install. The bundle can be downloaded from the [Software AG Empower server](https://empower.softwareag.com/). The bundle is named "Cumulocity IoT Data Broker Edge".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bundle for installing the Messaging Service and the microservice-based data broker comes as a `.tgz` file which contains the Messaging Service and data broker files, an install script and a digital signature. This bundle is unpacked, the signature verified and the install script executed by another script that is part of the standard Edge install. The bundle can be downloaded from the [Software AG Empower server](https://empower.softwareag.com/). The bundle is named "Cumulocity IoT Data Broker Edge".
```

> You need to ensure that microservices are enabled for Edge as both the Messaging Service and Data broker run as Kubernetes pods. Running microservices on a basic Edge install requires the number of CPU cores to be increased from 2 to 4 and the RAM to be increased from 6GB to 8GB. Running the Messaging Service and Data broker requires an extra 4GB of RAM on top of this.

Reviewer: Maybe worth highlighting this in a `{{< c8y-admon-req >}}` Requirements block?  See https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-docs/pull/553/files for an example of the syntax.

> You need to ensure that microservices are enabled for Edge as both the Messaging Service and Data broker run as Kubernetes pods. Running microservices on a basic Edge install requires the number of CPU cores to be increased from 2 to 4 and the RAM to be increased from 6GB to 8GB. Running the Messaging Service and Data broker requires an extra 4GB of RAM on top of this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to ensure that microservices are enabled for Edge as both the Messaging Service and data broker run as Kubernetes pods. Running microservices on a basic Edge install requires the number of CPU cores to be increased from 2 to 4 and the RAM to be increased from 6GB to 8GB. Running the Messaging Service and data broker requires an extra 4GB of RAM on top of this.
```

Using SCP, copy the bundle to the /tmp directory on the Edge server - you will need to enter the password for the Edge Linux administrative/login account when prompted. For Example:

```bash
scp C:\Temp\<BUNDLE_NAME> "<LOGIN_USERNAME>@<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER>:/tmp/<BUNDLE_NAME>"
```

substituting the relevant values of `<LOGIN_USERNAME>`, `<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER>` and `<BUNDLE_NAME>`. Then run:

```bash
ssh <LOGIN_USERNAME>@<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER> -t "/bin/bash -c 'cd /tmp && sudo /opt/c8y/utilities/install_signed_package.sh /tmp/<BUNDLE_NAME>"
```

You will need to enter the Edge Linux admin account password again followed by the Cumulocity admin account password.

> To confirm the Messaging Service and Data broker are now running, log into the Edge VM using ssh with the connection details used previously and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To confirm the Messaging Service and data broker are now running, log into the Edge VM using ssh with the connection details used previously and run:
```

cumulocity-single-node   kube-registry-persistent-secure-7db46f57b5-vhlbh                 1/1     Running     0          81m
kube-system              coredns-74ff55c5b-5zkps                                          1/1     Running     0          82m
kube-system              etcd-localhost                                                   1/1     Running     0          82m
kube-system              kube-apiserver-localhost                                         1/1     Running     0          82m
kube-system              kube-controller-manager-localhost                                1/1     Running     0          82m
kube-system              kube-proxy-92lm6                                                 1/1     Running     0          82m
kube-system              kube-scheduler-localhost                                         1/1     Running     0          82m
kube-system              metrics-server-5b78d5f9c6-7l45k                                  1/1     Running     0          82m
tigera-operator          tigera-operator-76bbbcbc85-6clrf                                 1/1     Running     0          82m```

> The key pods that should be running are the pulsar bookie, pulsar broker, pulsar zookeeper and databroker agent server. It may take a few minutes for the kubernetes pods to settle into a Running state after the install has been done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key pods that should be running are the `pulsar-bookie-0`, `pulsar-broker-0`, `pulsar-zookeeper-0` and `databroker-agent-server` (with an installation-specific suffix on the pod name). It may take a few minutes for the Kubernetes pods to settle into a Running state after the install has been done.
```

> For more information see the [Messaging Reference Guide](https://cumulocity.com/guides/reference/notifications/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on installing and troubleshooting the Messaging Service see the "Messaging Service Installation & operations guide", part of the Cumulocity IoT Platform documentation set available from https://documentation.softwareag.com/ (Software AG Empower login required).
For more information on configuring and using the microservice-based data broker, see the [Microservice-based data broker](https://cumulocity.com/guides/users-guide/enterprise-tenant/#ms-data-broker) section of the Cumulocity user guide.
```

Using SCP, copy the bundle to the /tmp directory on the Edge server - you will need to enter the password for the Edge Linux administrative/login account when prompted. For Example:

```bash
scp C:\Temp\<BUNDLE_NAME> "<LOGIN_USERNAME>@<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER>:/tmp/<BUNDLE_NAME>"
```

substituting the relevant values of `<LOGIN_USERNAME>`, `<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER>` and `<BUNDLE_NAME>`. Then run:

```bash
ssh <LOGIN_USERNAME>@<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER> -t "/bin/bash -c 'cd /tmp && sudo /opt/c8y/utilities/install_signed_package.sh /tmp<BUNDLE_NAME>"
```

You will need to enter the Edge Linux admin account password again followed by the Cumulocity admin account password.

To confirm the Messaging Service and Data broker are now running, log into the Edge VM using ssh with the connection details used previously and run:

```bash
sudo kubectl get pods -A
```

Which should return something like this:

> [THIS NEEDS UPDATING WHEN THE DATA BROKER STARTS INSTALLING AGAIN]

Reviewer 3: From my Edge VM with working databroker:
```
[root@iot-edge-server admin]# kubectl get pods -A
NAMESPACE                NAME                                                             READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
c8y-messaging-service    pulsar-bookie-0                                                  1/1     Running     0          11h
c8y-messaging-service    pulsar-bookie-init-zptcn                                         0/1     Completed   0          11h
c8y-messaging-service    pulsar-broker-0                                                  1/1     Running     0          11h
c8y-messaging-service    pulsar-pulsar-init-7fg9v                                         0/1     Completed   0          11h
c8y-messaging-service    pulsar-zookeeper-0                                               1/1     Running     0          11h
calico-system            calico-kube-controllers-5ddcc6fc8f-wh246                         1/1     Running     0          11h
calico-system            calico-node-gwwjh                                                1/1     Running     0          11h
calico-system            calico-typha-59d77bd956-4dtwn                                    1/1     Running     0          11h
cumulocity-single-node   databroker-agent-server-scope-edge-deployment-6b58b84c6f-rrsln   0/1     Running     3          11h
cumulocity-single-node   device-simulator-scope-management-deployment-8bf49bff7-cwxjq     1/1     Running     0          11h
cumulocity-single-node   kube-registry-persistent-secure-69fbcb8b6d-tqf92                 1/1     Running     0          11h
kube-system              coredns-74ff55c5b-7lnkt                                          1/1     Running     0          11h
kube-system              etcd-localhost                                                   1/1     Running     0          11h
kube-system              kube-apiserver-localhost                                         1/1     Running     0          11h
kube-system              kube-controller-manager-localhost                                1/1     Running     0          11h
kube-system              kube-proxy-zbvnd                                                 1/1     Running     0          11h
kube-system              kube-scheduler-localhost                                         1/1     Running     0          11h
kube-system              metrics-server-5b78d5f9c6-7zcx9                                  1/1     Running     1          11h
tigera-operator          tigera-operator-76bbbcbc85-4wvcf                                 1/1     Running     1          11h
```

---
weight: 10
title: Installing the Messaging Service and the microservice-based data broker on Edge
layout: redirect
---

> The microservice-based data broker is an optional component of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge. The data broker is a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} feature that allows a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} tenant to send data in motion (live measurements, events and alarms), using the standard {{< product-c8y-iot >}} REST API requests, to another tenant as that data arrives in the first tenant. It is often used to 'ship' data from remote Edge {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instances in the field to a central {{< product-c8y-iot >}} instance, where all data from all remote 'field' locations can be seen and handled together. Another use case may be where devices are leased; the devices are managed by the leasing company in its tenant, and the devices' measurements, etc. are sent, via a data broker connection, onto the leasing tenant for application data processing.

Author: Changed.

The bundle for installing the Messaging Service and the microservice-based data broker comes as a `.tgz` file which contains the Messaging Service and data broker files, an install script and a digital signature. This bundle is unpacked, the signature verified and the install script executed by another script that is part of the standard Edge install. The bundle can be downloaded from the [Software AG Empower server](https://empower.softwareag.com/). The bundle is named "Cumulocity IoT Data Broker Edge".

{{< c8y-admon-req >}}

> You need to ensure that microservices are enabled for Edge as both the Messaging Service and data broker run as Kubernetes pods. Running microservices on a basic Edge install requires the number of CPU cores to be increased from 2 to 4 and the RAM to be increased from 6GB to 8GB. Running the Messaging Service and data broker requires an extra 4GB of RAM on top of this.

Reviewer 4: - [ ] Edge refers to enabling microservices as "enabling microservice hosting feature"
- [ ] Provide a link to the corresponding section of the documentation https://cumulocity.com/guides/edge/configuration/#configuring-microservices

> You need to ensure that microservices are enabled for Edge as both the Messaging Service and data broker run as Kubernetes pods. Running microservices on a basic Edge install requires the number of CPU cores to be increased from 2 to 4 and the RAM to be increased from 6GB to 8GB. Running the Messaging Service and data broker requires an extra 4GB of RAM on top of this.

Author: Changed.

{{< /c8y-admon-req >}}

> Using SCP, copy the bundle to the /tmp directory on the Edge server - you will need to enter the password for the Edge Linux administrative/login account when prompted. For Example:

Author: Changed.

```bash

> scp C:\Temp\<BUNDLE_NAME> "<LOGIN_USERNAME>@<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER>:/tmp/<BUNDLE_NAME>"

Reviewer 4: - [ ] I suggest we replace the BUNDLE_NAME with the exact name of the tar file. Like databroker-edge.tar. 
- [ ] And also not refer to C:\Temp.
- [ ] The destination of scp need not point to a specific file, as omitting the filename from the destination location copies the file with the original name.

```

substituting the relevant values of `<LOGIN_USERNAME>`, `<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER>` and `<BUNDLE_NAME>`. Then run:

```bash

> ssh <LOGIN_USERNAME>@<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER> -t "/bin/bash -c 'cd /tmp && sudo /opt/c8y/utilities/install_signed_package.sh /tmp/<BUNDLE_NAME>"

Reviewer 4: - [ ] Would it be simpler if we split this into two steps?
       1. SSH into edge `ssh <LOGIN_USERNAME>@<DNS_NAME_OF_SERVER>`
       2. run the script `sudo /opt/c8y/utilities/install_signed_package.sh /tmp/<BUNDLE_NAME>`

Author: I decided not to change this as this command has been tested a lot. If you really don't like it I will change it.

Reviewer 4: No problem. Thanks!

```

> You will need to enter the Edge Linux admin account password again followed by the Cumulocity admin account password.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Enter the Edge Linux admin account password, again followed by the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} admin account password.
```

Author: Chnaged.

> To confirm the Messaging Service and data broker are now running, log into the Edge VM using ssh with the connection details used previously and run:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To confirm the Messaging Service and data broker are now running, log into the Edge VM using SSH with the connection details used previously and run:
```

Author: Changed.

```bash
sudo kubectl get pods -A
```

> Which should return something like this:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The command returns something like this:
```

cumulocity-single-node   device-simulator-scope-management-deployment-78d5c6694-rlpjx     1/1     Running     0          80m
cumulocity-single-node   kube-registry-persistent-secure-7db46f57b5-vhlbh                 1/1     Running     0          81m
kube-system              coredns-74ff55c5b-5zkps                                          1/1     Running     0          82m
kube-system              etcd-localhost                                                   1/1     Running     0          82m
kube-system              kube-apiserver-localhost                                         1/1     Running     0          82m
kube-system              kube-controller-manager-localhost                                1/1     Running     0          82m
kube-system              kube-proxy-92lm6                                                 1/1     Running     0          82m
kube-system              kube-scheduler-localhost                                         1/1     Running     0          82m
kube-system              metrics-server-5b78d5f9c6-7l45k                                  1/1     Running     0          82m

> tigera-operator          tigera-operator-76bbbcbc85-6clrf                                 1/1     Running     0          82m```

Reviewer 4: - [ ] Extra ``` characters at the end of the line.

```

> The key pods that should be running are the `pulsar-bookie-0`, `pulsar-broker-0`, `pulsar-zookeeper-0` and `databroker-agent-server` (with an installation-specific suffix on the pod name). It may take a few minutes for the Kubernetes pods to settle into a Running state after the installation has been done.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The key pods that should be running are `pulsar-bookie-0`, `pulsar-broker-0`, `pulsar-zookeeper-0` and `databroker-agent-server`, with a suffix for the pod name specific to the installation. It may take a few minutes for the Kubernetes pods to settle into a running state after the installation has finished.
```

Author: Changed.

> For more information on installing and troubleshooting the Messaging Service see the "Messaging Service Installation & operations guide", part of the Cumulocity IoT Platform documentation set available from https://documentation.softwareag.com/ (Software AG Empower login required).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For more information on installing and troubleshooting the Messaging Service see the *Messaging Service Installation & operations guide*.
```

> For more information on configuring and using the microservice-based data broker, see the [Microservice-based data broker](https://cumulocity.com/guides/users-guide/enterprise-tenant/#ms-data-broker) section of the Cumulocity user guide.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For more information on configuring and using the microservice-based data broker, see [Enterprise tenant > Microservice-based data broker](/users-guide/enterprise-tenant/#ms-data-broker) in the *User guide*.
```

Author: Changed.
